# **How Safe Are Analgesics?**

## **Abstract**

Analgesics have the highest acute, lethality rate of any drug.This is probably owing to ease of access, as well as the toxicity of the substances involved, which makes understanding the dose and toxicity very important. Drug safety generally uses Therapeutic Indices (weighing ED50 against TD50) to examine efficacy versus acute toxicity. This study examines over 60 analgesics, considering risk to be acute toxicity, stated as the number of standard doses that could cause death in an individual. This is referred to as ‘Lethality as a multiple of dose’ or LaMD. An extensive data-set for a range of analgesics is collected, that might be useful to researchers, clinicians and regulators. Of the analgesics examined, it is found that acetaminophen and bromfenac have the lowest LaMD, needing the fewest number of doses to reach lethal levels of the analgesics examined. Another discovery is that opioids have the most favourable efficacy to toxicity ratio when considering its acute rather than chronic toxicity (LaMD). Using a linear model, it is found that the main drivers of LaMD risk were: physical dose (mg); the in vivo lethality (LD50); whether or not the drug is acetaminophen; and the level of cyclooxygenase-2 (COX-2) inhibition. The conclusion is that safety of analgesics, particularly NSAIDs (COX-2 inhibitors) and acetaminophen should be highly monitored.

**In this repository you will find the data I have collected on analgesics from over 70 sources, and source code I used to run some analysis on this data.**
